2.2. PLAYER COMPONENTS
1 Personal board 3 Production cubes 14 Workers 1 Scoring marker 5 Deviation tokens
1 Forge 1 Hammer cube 1 Sculptor 1 Personal set of 12 apostle tiles 
1 Warehouse 1 Rooster disc 3 Mastery discs numbered from 1 to 12 with 

their backs in the player’s colour 

1. INTRODUCTION
From the heart of Prague’s Old Town, the ancient Astronomical Clock, known as Orloj, marks the passage of time with its intricate mechanism and enigmatic figures: 

a marvel of medieval technology that still endures to this day.

The astronomical dial, the oldest part of the clock, dates back to 1410, but the game is set around 1865, when the calendar, painted by Josef Mánes, and the apostle 
moving figures were added to the clock.

From their workshop, each player will construct the signs of the zodiac and the calendar months, as well as the images of the apostles. With each construction, you 
will be one step closer to completing this masterpiece, a symbol of the city of Prague.

2. COMPONENTS
2.1. GENERAL COMPONENTS 2.3. SOLO MODE COMPONENTS

1 Main board 3 Plastic rotation axes (1 spare) 6 Blocked zodiac dials 9 Common stained-glass- 4 Additional actions 
1 Rotation axis 1 Golden rooster 1 Large final construction dial window objectives (3 of each reference cards 18 Action cards 3 Advanced turn scoring cards 5 Scoring tiles 3 Mastery track tiles 1 Conditions met tile

colour)
1 Round marker 2 Hammer discs 15 Gold pieces 3 Basic turn scoring cards 1 Endgame scoring card 3 Mastery tiles 3 End-of-round action tiles 1 mastery track objective 

1 Orloj clock face
9 Common objective bonuses tile

1 Astronomical dial 1 Painter 18 Assistants (3 of each type) 20 Paint pieces
(3 of each colour)

1 Moon disc 12 Calendar sections 24 Scrolls (red seal) 20 Wood pieces
21 Workshop cards

1 Walk of the apostles 12 Month dials 6 Royal scrolls (blue seal) 20 Iron pieces
6 Hammer cards

3 Orloj crowning pieces 6 Blocked month dials 6 Mastery stained-glass windows 18 Coins 
8 Initial resource cards

2 Apostle gears 12 Zodiac dials 1 Bag

3. COMPONENT SETUP
3.1. THE WALK OF THE APOSTLES

Assemble the gears 
onto the walk of the 
apostles. To do this, 
fit the gears together 
so that in the lower 
position, Apostle 1 
(James) is displayed 
on the left side and 
Apostle 2 (Peter) on 
the right side. This will 
be the initial position 
for each game. Use the 
plastic axes included in 
the game for assembly.

2 3



4. GAME SETUP Take the common objective bonuses and separate them by the colour of their backs. Shuffle each colour separately and place one of each 
colour in the corresponding positions according to their backs. Return the rest to the box.

4.1. GENERAL SETUP
Shuffle the 21 workshop cards and place 3 of them in the designated spaces on the main board. Place the rest of the deck aside.

Take the main board and unfold it in the centre of the table. Place the Orloj clock face and the astronomical dial 
on the rotation axis in the centre to form the clock, as shown in the image. To set up the calendar, take the month dials, place them in the bag and follow these steps:

Take the moon disc and place it in the first position to the left of the hand inside the astronomical dial. Draw, at random, the number 
of dials indicated in the table 

As the starting position for each game, the Orloj clock face should be placed in a random position and the on the left based on the 
astronomical dial with the hand pointing to the starting hour of the game. number of players.

E.g. The image shows the setup for a game starting between 1:00 p.m. and 1:59 p.m. In the construction area, place 
a blocked month dial in each 

Place the walk of the apostles with its gears above the main board. Rotate the space indicated by the dials 
gears until apostles 1 and 2 (James and Peter) are visible at the bottom. drawn from the bag.

Randomly take one of the Orloj crowning pieces and assemble it with the walk 
of the apostles. Place the round marker on the leftmost space of the round track Draw 1 more dial from the 
according to the number of players in the game. Then, place the golden rooster bag and place all extracted 
on the general rooster track on the number indicated by the marker on the round dials, each in its corresponding 
track. space in the calendar with 

their illustrated side up. 
E.g. The image shows the placement of the round marker and the rooster 
for a two-player game. Place all remaining dials still 

in the bag in the construction 
For the first game: Take the Note: One of the crowning area in their corresponding 
crowning piece marked with the pieces is only for solo mode. spaces, but with the non-
symbol           . illustrated side up.

The image shows the setup for 
a four-player game.

Prepare the zodiac dials in the 
same way as the month dials.

Place the large final 
construction dial in the centre of 
the calendar with the side shown 
in the image facing up.

Shuffle the 6 mastery stained-glass windows and randomly place 3 of them at the 
top of the mastery tracks. Return the rest to the box. Place a hammer disc in the indicated position in each of the 

construction zones (months and zodiac).
Take the 6 royal scrolls (blue seal), shuffle them and place 3 of them face up at the 

top of the mastery tracks. Return the rest to the box. Take the 12 calendar sections, shuffle them and place them face up 
in a random order to form a circle around the calendar.

Take the scrolls (red seal) according to the number of players. In a four-player For the first game: Store the 12 sections in the box and use the setup 
game, use all the scrolls. Remove from the game the scrolls marked with a      in printed on the board.
a three-player game, and in a two-player or solo mode game, also remove those 
marked with a        . Return the unused scrolls to the box. Place the painter in the position indicated in the image.

Shuffle the scrolls to form a face-down reserve next to the main board, then reveal Take the assistants and place them next to the board in 6 separate 
three or four of them, depending on whether it is a game with 1-2 players or a game piles. Each pile should contain assistants of the same type (with the 
with more than 2 players, respectively. same iconography). Additionally, each pile should have 1 assistant less 

than the number of players in the game. Return any remaining assistants 
Take the common stained-glass-window objectives and separate them by the to the box. In solo mode, as well as in a two-player game, there will be 

colour of their backs. Shuffle each colour separately and place one of each colour only 1 assistant of each type.
in the corresponding positions according to their backs. Return the rest to the box. Take the resources (gold, paint, wood, iron and coins) and place 

them next to the main board to form a general supply.

4 5



4.2. INDIVIDUAL PLAYER SETUP Place your scoring marker on space 10 of the scoring track on the main board. 5. GENERAL CONCEPTS 5.3. DEVIATION TOKENS

Each player performs these steps: Take your personal set of apostle tiles (with the back in your colour and 5.1. IMMEDIATE AND ENDGAME VICTORY POINTS Clock construction is a delicate process, but sometimes you 
numbered from 1 to 12) and place them next to your personal board. must force the mechanism and later correct it. By forcing 

Place your personal board in the centre of your play area, along with your In the game, there are two types of scoring: immediate scoring and endgame deviation, you will be able to perform additional movements 
warehouse and forge. Deal each player an additional actions reference card. scoring. From now on, we will refer to Victory Points as VP. beyond the permitted limits in the game’s moving parts or 

fulfill conditions required for certain actions. However, be 

Place your 5 deviation tokens at the top of your personal board so the side that The last player to have visited the city of Prague will be the starting player. This icon indicates that this scoring is resolved immediately. Move careful—these tokens may also cause you to lose points 

does not show the gear icon is facing up. your marker forward on the scoring track as many spaces as the icon during the rooster’s call.
indicates.

Place your rooster disc in the first position of your personal rooster track, 4.3. HAMMERS AND INITIAL RESOURCES Forcing deviation: This icon indicates that you must flip one of your 
starting from the bottom. This icon indicates that this scoring is resolved at the end of the game. deviation tokens, revealing the broken gear icon.

Shuffle the hammer cards and reveal one more than the number of players. Do not move your marker yet.
Place one cube in the bottom position of each production track and your forge Then, place one initial resource card next to each of these hammer cards to form Each player has 5 deviation tokens available on their board. You cannot force a 

track. combinations. Starting with the last player and proceeding counterclockwise, Flip your scoring marker to indicate a score greater than 100 VP. deviation if all your tokens already show the broken gear icon.
each player chooses one of these combinations. Whenever a force deviation icon appears next to an action, you must first force 

Place your workers in the indicated positions: 5.2. RESOURCES the deviation before performing the action.
 

Three in the apostle panel Correcting deviation: This icon indicates that you may flip a deviation 
Three in the production zone 
One above each workshop card on the main board. In Orloj, there are different types of resources. A resource icon indicates that you token back, hiding the broken gear icon.

take a resource from the general supply and place it in your play area. Conversely, 
Place the rest of your workers next to your personal board. These are your whenever you see a resource icon crossed out with an     , it indicates a cost that 

5.4. WORKERS
available workers. In three- and four-player games, return one of these workers to you must pay by returning the indicated resource to the general supply.
the box. In three- and four-player games, each player has four available workers.

Take one gold from the Pay one gold. Return it to the One of the key mechanics in Orloj is worker management. If, at any point in the 
general supply and place it general supply. game, you do not have available workers, you will be forced to pass your turn or 

Place your sculptor next to your personal board.
in your personal reserve. find alternative ways to unlock or recover new workers.

Place one mastery disc on the lowest space of each mastery track on the main 
board. 5.2.1. Basic resources 5.4.1. Recovering workers

The image shows the hammer setup for a two-player game. Paint, wood and iron are the basic resources in the game. When you recover workers, you may take those that were used on the clock or the 
This icon is equivalent to one basic resource of your choice: paint, calendar, making them available again.

Each player places their hammer card underneath 
their forge and takes the resources indicated on wood, or iron. Note: Normally, workers are 
the initial resource card. If this card also includes recovered only from the clock. Recover one worker.
apostles, take them from your personal set and 5.2.2. Special resources Recovering them from the calendar 
place them in your warehouse. may result in earning fewer VP at 

Due to the gold elements of Orloj, gold is an essential resource the end of the game.
You may wait to take the resources from your for construction in the game. On the other hand, coins 
initial resource card until just before your first Recover the indicated 

represent money and are related to the mastery tracks. The 
turn to know the position of the astronomical dial Recover two workers. number of workers.

Univerzita Karlova in Prague is one of the oldest universities 
and the Orloj clock face. in Europe and access to it was reserved for the wealthiest 

classes.
For the first game: instead of assembling combinations randomly, use the four 5.4.2. Unlocking new workers
preset initial setups, following the number in the lower right corner of each Gold and coins are special resources in Orloj. You can pay a special resource 
card. Randomly distribute one of these combinations to each player. At the beginning of the game, you start with a set number of available workers. 

instead of any basic resource. However, you cannot pay with coins instead of However, during the game, you will be able to unlock new workers and place 
gold or vice versa. them next to your personal board as available workers. The methods for unlocking 

workers are explained in their respective sections:

●	 Unlocking workers from your apostle panel. See section 10.1. 
You can also obtain gold through basic resources. You can exchange three identical Placing an apostle on page 14.
basic resources for one gold. You may perform this exchange at any time during 
your turn. ●	 Unlocking workers from workshop cards. See section 8.7. 

Expanding the workshop on page 12.

●	 Unlocking workers in your production zone. See section 8.6. 
Performing an upgrade on page 11.

6 7



5.5. MASTERY TRACKS 5.7. WAREHOUSE Place one of your available workers on the space indicated by the hand. If 
there is already a worker in that space, return it to the player it belongs to. You 7.2. PASSING
may return your own worker to yourself.

There are three mastery tracks in the game: Innovation, Precision and Observation. The warehouse is where apostles and Instead of activating the clock mechanism, you may pass. Typically, the pass action 
Each of these tracks corresponds to a skill that improves based on the position of assistants go. There are two available spaces is done to recover workers, but you may also choose to pass even if you still have 

Choose whether to perform the actions of the outer ring section first or the 
your mastery disc. in your warehouse—one space is exclusively available workers in your play area.

Orloj clock face section first. You cannot alternate actions between each section.
for storing an apostle, while the other can 
hold either an apostle or an assistant. The pass action is linked to the height of your disc on the pink mastery track and 

The training and knowledge of a clockmaker are their greatest is divided into three steps:
virtues! You may rearrange the apostles and 

assistants in your warehouse at any time. Recover as many workers as indicated by the height of your mastery disc on 
Innovation Track (blue): Indicates the maximum rotation of the pink mastery track. See section 5.4.1. Recovering workers on page 7.
the astronomical dial allowed without forcing deviation. See 
section 5.6. Clock Mechanism on page 8. Activate the moon. See section 8.4. Activating the moon on page 11.

Precision Track (pink): Indicates the steps to take when a player passes their turn. Move the golden rooster one space to the right on the general rooster track.
See section 7.2. Passing on page 9. 6. GAME FLOW
Also determines the sculptor’s level. See section 8.9. Activating the Sculptor on 
page 13. The game begins with the starting player’s turn. From then on, players take their 

turns in a clockwise order until the game ends. 8. ACTIONS
Observation Track Below are the game’s actions. These actions are not mandatory and if a player 
(yellow): Indicates the 7. THE TURN does not wish to or cannot perform an action during their turn, they simply skip it.
maximum number of On each turn, you have two options:
steps the painter can 
move on the calendar Activate the clock mechanism 8.1. RESOURCE PRODUCTION
and the number of 
steps when activating Pass
the moon. See sections 
8.4 and 8.5 on page 11. Regardless of the chosen option and at any point during your turn, you may 

perform any number of additional actions. See section 10. Additional turn actions Produce as many resources as indicated by your production track.
on page 14.

The image shows the 
levels and abilities 
corresponding to each 7.1. ACTIVATING THE CLOCK MECHANISM
of Mikel’s mastery discs. You must have at least one available worker to choose this option.

Configure the clock so that the hand of the astronomical dial points to a section of 
5.6. CLOCK MECHANISM the outer ring and a section of the Orloj clock face. To do this, follow these steps:

Outer Ring: Printed on Configure the astronomical dial. 
the main board, divided into The astronomical dial always rotates clockwise and must move at least one 
sections. space. The maximum movement capacity of the astronomical dial is indicated by 

the height of your disc on the blue mastery track.
Orloj clock face: Always 

moves counterclockwise and 
is divided into sections. You may force deviation to rotate additional 

spaces. Force as many deviations as the extra 
Astronomical dial: Always spaces you wish to move the astronomical 

moves clockwise. The hand dial.
of the astronomical dial 
indicates the actions a player Configure the Orloj clock face. 
performs on their turn. The Orloj clock face always rotates counter-

clockwise and you are not required to move it. Mikel wants to perform the build action, but since he is only allowed one rotation Eduardo performs the iron production action. Since his production cube is at the 
Moon: The moon Force as many deviations as the number of on the blue mastery track     , he must force two deviations to move three spaces highest level, he produces two iron and one gold.

moves clockwise along the spaces you wish to rotate the dial. to the desired position     . In addition to these two, he decides to force one more 
deviation to rotate the Orloj clock face     . He returns the worker to Carlos, places This icon indicates that This icon indicates that you 

astronomical dial and serves his own and chooses whether to resolve the outer ring section first or the Orloj you take one resource produce resources from a 
as the most efficient way to Note: The astronomical dial and the Orloj clock face are two independent clock face section first     . of your choice out of production track of your 
correct deviations. components and rotating one does not affect the other. wood, paint or iron. choice.

8 9



8.2. MASTERY 8.3. TAKING AN APOSTLE 8.4. ACTIVATING THE MOON 8.6. PERFORMING AN UPGRADE
Move one of your discs up one space on the The moon moves around the astronomical dial, always in a 
mastery track indicated by the icon colour. clockwise direction. Move the moon disc as many steps as Move one of your production cubes or your hammer cube one 

To give it an authentic touch, we work on the walk of the indicated by your disc on the yellow mastery track. Gain all the position upward.
apostles, a spectacle in which, every hour, the rooster crows rewards shown in the steps taken by the moon.
and the apostles appear over the Orloj in a synchronized 

Move one of your discs Pay one coin and move one of your choreography. You can unlock new workers through upgrades. In your production zone, a worker 
up one space on a discs up one space on a mastery Eduardo’s disc is on level becomes available once all three production cubes reach the worker’s position. 
mastery track of your track of your choice. Take this worker and place it next to your personal board as an available worker.
choice. Take one of the two apostles displayed at the bottom of the gears IV of the yellow mastery 

Gain one point if, upon receiving a mastery, you were already on the last space of from your personal set and place it in your warehouse. Then, track. When activating 

the track. rotate the gears to the next position to reveal a new combination the moon, he moves it 
of apostles. The rotation direction of the gears is indicated at their 6 steps clockwise. He 
centre. receives one wood, one 

paint and one iron and 
You cannot take an apostle if your warehouse is full. additionally, corrects 

3 deviations on his 
Before taking an apostle, you may choose to rotate the gears. Force as many personal board.
deviation tokens as spaces you wish to rotate the gears before taking the apostle.

In Orloj, you may also 
find a moon icon with 
a modifier. This means 
that you activate the 

8.2.1. Bonuses on the mastery tracks moon while applying the 
specified modifier.

Within the mastery tracks, there are different rewards that are obtained when 
your mastery disc reaches the indicated position for the bonus. This icon indicates that, when activating the moon, you gain 

two additional moon steps beyond those indicated by your 
Scrolls (red seal): Take one scroll from disc on the yellow mastery track.
those revealed on the main board, then 
replace it with a new one from the pile. 
Scrolls can be used as additional actions in 8.5. MOVING THE PAINTER

a turn. See section 10.3. Using a scroll on page 15. Keep this scroll in your play The painter moves around the calendar sections and always in Eduardo performs an upgrade, moving his wood production cube one step up. 
area, whether you have used it or not. a clockwise direction. Move the painter up to the number of Since all three production cubes have now reached the first worker’s position, that 

steps indicated by your disc on the yellow mastery track. Once worker is unlocked and becomes available.
Royal Scrolls (blue seal): Score immediately, based on moved, choose one of the two bonuses shown in the calendar 
the condition indicated on the scroll, up to a maximum sections to the left or right of the painter. The painter must 

Gain one point and one gold when performing an upgrade on a production track 
of 10 VP. Keep this scroll in your play area after scoring move at least one space.

Mikel wants to take Apostle No. 9 (John). To do so, before taking it, he forces one that has already reached its final position.
it. No other player can score a royal scroll that has deviation and rotates the gears        . Now, Apostle No. 9 is positioned at the bottom 

already been scored. All royal scrolls are described in section 13 of the Appendix: of the gears and is available. Then, he takes Apostle No. 9 from his personal set 
Royal scrolls on page 22. and places it in his warehouse      . Finally, the gears automatically rotate one more 

step      .
Moon: Gain one moon activation action. See section 8.4. Move the rooster one position to the right on the general rooster track every time 
Activating the moon on page 11. one of the red teeth of the left gear aligns with the red arrow. If it reaches the last 

position of the track, proceed to the rooster’s call. See section 9. The rooster’s call 
on page 13.

Assistant: Take an assistant from one of the stacks and place it in 
the designated space in your warehouse. Assistants can be used 
as additional actions during the turn. See section 10.4. Placing an After rotating the gears, one of the 
assistant on page 15. red teeth aligns with the arrow    . 

Move the rooster one step forward on 
You cannot have two identical assistants with the same the general rooster track      . Carlos’ disc is on level III of 
iconography. the yellow mastery track     , 

allowing him up to 5 steps 
when moving the painter. He 
moves the painter 2 spaces 
and places it between two 
calendar sections  . He 

Sculptor Level: This indicator shows your sculptor’s level when performing an chooses the right section 
action with them. See section 8.9. Activating the sculptor on page 13. and receives one gold and one coin.

10 11



8.7. EXPANDING YOUR WORKSHOP 8.8. CONSTRUCTING He receives the calendar bonus, taking one gold and one coin. Sculptor actions are graded based on the sculptor’s level, which 
is determined by your disc’s position on the pink mastery track.

Follow these steps to expand your workshop: In the game, there are two construction zones: one for month Finally, he takes his one coin hammer bonus as indicated on his hammer card.
dials and another for zodiac dials. The construction process Perform the action corresponding to your sculptor’s level.

Choose a workshop card and pay the resources shown at the is the same for both. A reminder of the construction steps is 
bottom of the card. The cost of each card includes one paint plus printed on the main board. Some sculptor actions require forcing a deviation. You 
a number of resources based on the position of the card and the cannot perform the rest of the action unless you first force 
type of resource indicated on the card. the indicated deviation.

The cost for this workshop card is two The actions of the sculptor are described in section 6 of the 
wood and one paint. Appendix: Sculptor actions on page 21.

If present, unlock the worker of your 
colour above the card and place it in your 
play area as a new available worker. If there In the image, the 
is no worker, it means you have already sections into which the 

Move the hammer disc clockwise, following the blue arrows, until it reaches 
purchased a card in that same position and track is divided can be 

a position adjacent to the dial you wish to construct. The maximum movement 
you do not receive a new worker. seen, indicated by the 

of the hammer disc is determined by the position of your cube on your hammer level icons. Eduardo 
card. The hammer disc may move one additional space for each deviation you has level 1 with his 

Gain the reward shown at the top of the card. force. You are not required to move the hammer disc to construct. sculptor, while Carlos 
and Mikel have level 2.

Take the card and place it in your play area. If it is your first workshop card, Pay the required resources shown in the row and column where the dial is 
simply place it. Otherwise, place the new workshop card to the left or right of your located. Gain 2 VP for each resource spent.
existing workshop cards.

Place the constructed tile in its corresponding position on the calendar, with Carlos activates the sculptor and places it on a sculptor 
If placing the new card completes the two halves of an apostle or construction the illustrated side up. Place an available worker on it and gain 2 VP per dial action of his choice. 

icon, immediately perform that action. (including this one) that is part of an adjacent group of dials with workers of your He returns the sculptor already in that space to its owner. 
colour. Since his mastery disc indicates that his sculptor is at level 

Slide the workshop cards to the right and refill the empty space with a new 2, he forces a deviation to take one gold and two coins.
Note: one dial tile tile with no adjacent ones is considered a group of 1.

workshop card from the deck.
Carlos selects a work- Note: To build, you must have an available worker to place on the constructed 9. THE ROOSTER’S CALL

shop card and pays its dial. Every hour, the rooster flaps its wings and, after the walk of 
cost: 2 iron and 1 paint. the apostles is completed, it crows to announce a new hour.

He unlocks the work- Note: Month dials and zodiac dials 
er above the card.    He are also adjacent to each other. E.g. 
performs an upgrade as The month XII dial has three possible The rooster’s call occurs when the rooster reaches the last position 
indicated at the top of adjacent positions: month I, month XI on the general rooster track. The player whose turn it is takes the 
the card.      By placing it and the Capricorn zodiac dial. rooster and places it on their personal board as a reminder, then 

continues their turn as usual. Once their turn is over, proceed with 
next to his other workshop 
cards, he completes an Gain the bonus corresponding to the calendar section where the dial was built. the following steps. If the rooster needs to move additional steps 

during the remainder of the turn, these are not taken into account.
apostle icon, so he takes 
an apostle in the usual Gain the hammer bonus based on the position of your cube on your hammer All players correct as many deviations as indicated by their personal rooster 
way. card. See section 14 of the Appendix: Hammers on pages 22 and 23. track. If the track indicates a value higher than the number of deviations they 

Finally, he slides the 8.9. ACTIVATING THE SCULPTOR have, they gain 1 VP for each deviation they cannot correct.
cards to the right to reveal All players lose VP equal to the number of broken gear icons still showing on 
a new workshop card. Eduardo wants to construct month VI, so he must move the hammer disc one At the top, from left to right, the statues our sculptor works their deviation tokens.

position to place it adjacent to dial VI. This does not require forcing any deviation on are Vanity, Greed, Lust  and Death, which ring the bell and 
because, according to his hammer card, he can move it up to two spaces. turn their hourglass every hour, announcing the inevitable Move the round marker one position to the right on the round track and place 

passage of time. Below them, in the same order, are the the rooster back on the general rooster track, on the number indicated by the new 
To construct it, he must pay the resources shown in the row and column, so Philosopher,  Archangel Michael, the Astronomer and the position of the round marker. The game then continues as usual.

he pays one gold, one wood and one iron. He earns 6 VP (2 VP for each resource). Chronicler, representing the four virtues. The rooster always moves to the right on the general rooster track. It moves for 
two reasons only:

Now, he places the month VI dial in position VI of the calendar and places a Move your sculptor to one of the four sculptor action spaces on 
worker on the dial. Since it is adjacent to other dials with workers of his colour, he the main board. If another sculptor is already there, return it to its When rotating the apostle gears, one of the red teeth on the left gear 
gains an additional 8 VP (2 VP for each dial forming a group of adjacent dials with owner, who places it back in their play area. aligns with the red arrow. In this case, move the rooster one step. See 
a worker of his colour, including the one just constructed). section 8.3. Taking an apostle on page 10.

The action in the centre of the card is obtained by You must move the sculptor, meaning you cannot repeat the same When a player passes their turn. In this case, move the rooster one step. 
placing an assistant on it. See section 10.4. Placing an action if your sculptor is already in that space. See section 7.2. Passing on page 9.
assistant on page 15.  

12 13



Moon: Gain an activate moon action. See section 8.4. Activating Objectives have three reward positions for the first, second 
the moon on page 11. and third players to claim them, granting 8 VP, 6 VP and 4 VP 

at the end of the game, respectively.
Assistant: Take an assistant from one of the piles and place it in 
the designated space in your warehouse. Assistants can be used In a two-player game or in a solo mode game, the second 
as additional actions during your turn. See section 10.4. Placing an player to claim an objective must place their worker in the 
assistant on page 15. third position as the second position is not available.

You cannot have two assistants with the same iconography. Each objective’s conditions are described in section 11 of the 
To place an apostle in the indicated position, Eduardo must pay one paint resource. Appendix: Stained-glass-window objectives on page 22.

10.2. SPENDING A COIN
The apostle must match the colour of the space where you place it.

Mikel has placed his third green apostle on his panel and, 
Once placed, immediately receive the bonus shown below it. Spend one coin to use it as any resource (except gold). since he has an available worker, he claims the objective as 

an additional action. Being the first player to claim it, he 
places his worker in the first position, which grants him 8 VP 

Types of bonuses: at the end of the game       . He takes the bonus from the 
bonus tile, which gives him two coins. He flips over the bonus 

Gain one coin.
10.3. USING A SCROLL tile so that no other player can receive this bonus       .

Perform an upgrade. See section 8.6. Performing an 
upgrade on page 11. Flip over a scroll tile from your play area to gain the indicated 10.6. EXCHANGING RESOURCES FOR GOLD

bonus. Keep the used scroll in your play area. All scrolls are You may exchange three identical resources for one gold.
Recover two workers. See section 5.4.1. Recovering described in section 15 of the Appendix on page 23.

workers on page 7.

Unlock the worker in that space and place it next to 
your personal board as an available worker.

10.4. PLACING AN ASSISTANT 11. END OF THE GAME
Pay the resource indicated below a workshop card to place an The game will end after completing the round in which the last calendar dial has 

Eduardo pays one assistant from your warehouse onto the card. Gain the bonus been constructed or after completing the round in which the fourth rooster’s call 
wood to place the shown in the centre of the card. Each workshop card only occurs.

The rooster has reached the last position of the track during Eduardo’s turn. He apostle and re- has one assistant space. Assistants provide additional scoring 
takes the rooster as a reminder      and the rooster’s call occurs at the end of his ceives the indicated opportunities at the end of the game. To see what each assistant In both cases, the round is completed so that all players have played the same 
turn, following these steps: bonus, in this case, grants you, see section 8 of the Appendix: Assistants on page 22. number of turns. At that moment, proceed with the endgame scoring.

performing an up-
Eduardo corrects two deviations as indicated by his personal rooster track. All grade. The actions you gain by placing an assistant on a workshop card are described in The player with the highest score is the winner of the game. In case of a tie, the 

players carry out the same step. Carlos, whose rooster track allows him to correct section 16 of the Appendix on page 23. winner is determined by the player who has placed the most apostles in their 
up to four deviations, only has two, so he gains 2 VP. panel. If the tie persists, the tied players share the victory.

Carlos pays one iron and 
Eduardo loses 2 VP, one for each broken gear icon still showing on his deviation 10.1.1. Bonuses for completing a row or column in the apostle panel places the assistant from 

tokens. All players follow the same step. Carlos loses no points. 11.1. FINAL CONSTRUCTION
Whenever you complete a row or column, immediately receive the corresponding his warehouse onto one 
bonus. of his workshop cards. When a player performs the 

The round marker moves one step to the right and Eduardo returns the rooster He receives the bonus last construction of a dial in the 
to the general rooster track, placing it on the number indicated by the cube. The When you complete a row of taking an apostle, as calendar, they flip the large final 
game then continues as usual. of apostles, gain 7 VP and indicated in the centre of construction dial, enabling a 

perform a production on the card. At the end of the special construction.
one of your production game, this assistant will 

10. ADDITIONAL ACTIONS tracks of your choice. grant him 6 VP. Players, on their turn, may use a 
construct action to pay one gold, 

These actions may be performed at any time during your turn, even if you are When you complete a 
passing. column of apostles, activate one wood, one paint and one iron 

the moon or take an 10.5. CLAIMING AN OBJECTIVE to gain 8 VP. No worker can be 
10.1. PLACING AN APOSTLE assistant. placed on this tile. No adjacency 

Bonus for completing an Each game of Orloj has three common stained-glass-window points or calendar section 
apostle column. objectives, each displaying a condition. When you fulfill the bonuses are awarded but you still 

To place an apostle, it must come from your warehouse. condition, you may place one of your available workers in the receive your hammer bonus.

Pay the indicated cost to place an apostle from your warehouse Bonus for completing an uppermost available position below the condition. If you are the 
apostle row. first player to claim it, you receive the bonus shown on the bonus 

onto your apostle panel on your personal board. The cost is tile below, then flip it over. No other player will receive this bonus for claiming the 
shown to the left of the row where it is placed. same objective. Each player may claim each objective only once.

14 15



12. ENDGAME SCORING 12.3. DEVIATION SCORING Replace steps 10 and 11 of the general setup with the following: 13.2. JOSEF MÁNES’ COMPONENT SETUP 
A scoring summary is printed on the game board. Lose 1 VP for each broken gear icon still showing on your 

deviation tokens at the end of the game. Take the solo mode action card deck, shuffle it and reveal 6 cards. Some of Josef Mánes’ solo mode components contain the following symbol    . 
This symbol indicates that this component should be displayed on this side for an 
advanced level. See section 13.11. Solo mode difficulty levels on page 20.

12.1. MASTERY STAINED-GLASS-WINDOW SCORING Note: The personal rooster track does not modify this scoring.
Place the zodiac and month dials shown on these cards directly onto the 

Each mastery stained-glass window is calendar. Then, place blocked zodiac and month dials in the construction area 
scored independently. To score a stained- 12.4. ASSISTANT SCORING on the spaces indicated on the revealed cards. Place the conditions met tile in Josef Mánes’ play area and, to its right, place 

the mastery track objective tile, as shown in the image.
glass window, your mastery disc must 
have reached the seventh space on the Score each assistant placed on your workshop cards. Assistant 
corresponding mastery track. scoring details are found in section 8 of the Appendix: Assistants Place the remaining dials in their corresponding spaces in the construction Place the endgame scoring card to the right of Josef Mánes’ play area.

on page 22. area with their non-illustrated side up.
A brick line indicates the level from which you Shuffle the 3 mastery tiles of Josef Mánes and reveal one in each position 
can start scoring the stained-glass window. 12.5. COMMON STAINED-GLASS-WINDOW OBJECTIVE SCORING In solo mode, there is only one set of apostles shared between the player shown in the image.

and Josef Mánes. Separate the apostle tiles that appear on the revealed 
Each player scores according to the position of their workers on cards from the others. This will serve as important information during the Shuffle the 3 mastery track tiles and reveal one in each position shown in the 

Each stained-glass window has the following symbols: the common  stained-glass-window objectives: 8 VP for the first solo game. image.
position, 6 VP for the second position and 4 VP for the third position.

Scoring Condition: Score this 
condition as many times as you Return the 6 revealed action cards to the box. These cards will not be used Shuffle the 3 end-of-round action tiles and reveal one in each position shown 

meet it. The number of points in this solo game. The remaining 12 cards will be what are used for this solo in the image.

depends on the height of your game of Orloj.
disc on the mastery track. All Shuffle the 5 scoring tiles of Josef Mánes and reveal 3 of them, placing one in 
of the conditions are described each position shown in the image. Return the remaining tiles to the box.
in section 12 of the Appendix: 
Mastery stained-glass windows Take the 12 action cards leftover after the general setup and place them face-
on page 22. up as shown in the image.

Primary Scoring: The player 
whose mastery disc is the Take the 3 basic turn scoring cards, shuffle them and place them face-down in 
highest multiplies this value by 13. SOLO MODE the position indicated in the image.
the number of times they meet 
the condition. In case of a tie, all In solo mode, you play against the studio of Josef Mánes, the painter of the Orloj 
tied players use this value. calendar. Do not use a personal board for Josef Mánes. He does not use a forge, 

warehouse, deviation tokens, production cubes or a hammer cube. Instead, take 
13.1. SOLO MODE GENERAL SETUP only the 14 workers of his colour and place them in his play area as available 

Secondary Scoring: All other players who have crossed the workers.
Make the following changes to the standard game setup:

brick line with their mastery disc multiply this value by the 
number of times they meet the condition. Replace step 3 of the general setup with the following: Place one mastery disc of his colour on each mastery track and his scoring 

marker on space 10 of the scoring track, as usual.
Take the solo mode Orloj crowning piece (marked with the “    ” symbol) and 

According to the image, both Carlos and Eduardo score 2 VP assemble it with the walk of the apostles. Place the round marker on space 4. 
for each apostle placed on their apostle panel. Jorge, who has Place the rooster on space 4 of the general rooster track. After each rooster’s call, 
crossed the brick line, scores 1 VP for each apostle placed on his the rooster resets to position 4. The round marker does not move.
apostle panel. Mikel, who has not crossed the brick line, does 
not score his apostles. Before placing the mastery stained-glass windows, royal scrolls (blue seal) 

and common stained-glass-window objectives, remove the ones indicated in the Image: setup of the dials on the calendar.
image. Replace step 4 of the individual player setup with the following:

12.2. SURPLUS GOLD SCORING
Place one cube in the first position from the bottom of the forge track. Place one 

Exchange all your resources and coins to maximize your gold cube in the second position of each production track. This setup unlocks a sixth 
collection. Three identical resources can be exchanged for one worker, making it available for solo mode. See section 8.6. Performing an upgrade 
gold. Coins count as any resource type. on page 11.

Score 1 VP for each gold you have. The rest of the general and individual setup steps remain the same.

16 17



Place the top card of the action card deck in the first available position and Josef Mánes carries out his action card as follows: If Josef Mánes reaches a royal scroll space, he scores it immediately and places it 
reveal a scoring card, also in the first available position. Repeat this after each in his play area. 
of Josef Mánes’ turns, but always in the next available space. If no space is 
available, proceed to the end-of-round phases 3, 6 or 9, described in section 13.9 Check that he has the required available workers indicated on the card to 

proceed to step 2. If his mastery disc is already on the last position on a mastery track, he gains 1 VP 
of the Appendix on page 19, before performing this step again. per step he would have advanced in the usual way.

If he does not have enough workers, he recovers all his workers from the clock Josef Mánes does not take assistants or activate the moon when reaching these 
and ends his turn. Then, perform step 11 of setup of Josef Mánes’ components bonuses.
and proceed with your turn. Take a workshop card: Take the rightmost or 

leftmost workshop card, as indicated by the arrow, 
from the three displayed on the main board. Place 

Perform the rotations indicated at the top of the action card and place one it in his play area and refill the empty space as 
of his workers on the outer ring section which the hand of the astronomical dial usual.
points to. If there is already one of your workers there, return it to your play area, 
making it available again as usual.

Take an assistant: Take the leftmost or rightmost 
available assistant, as indicated by the arrow, from 

Perform the first action. If he is able to do so, he also gains the first action’s those next to the board and place it in his play 
reward. area. Josef Mánes successfully performs all the actions indicated on his card, so he 

proceeds with the action check:

Perform the second action. If he is able to do so, he also gains the second Move the painter: Move the painter the indicated He advances two positions on the blue mastery track.
action’s reward. number of spaces clockwise. He flips over the constructed dials and places one worker on each of them. He 

13.3. SOLO MODE GAME FLOW scores 4 VP for the first dial          and 2 VP for the second dial          .
He gains 6 VP from the turn scoring card and moves the rooster one step.

Josef Mánes always plays second. Play your turn as usual, then perform Josef After this, perform a check of Josef Mánes’ actions. See section 13.8 on page 19.
Mánes’ turn. After turns 3, 6 and 9 for Josef Mánes, perform a maintenance 13.8. CHECK OF JOSEF MÁNES’ ACTIONS
phase. After turn 12, proceed to the endgame scoring. 13.9. END OF ROUNDS 3, 6 AND 9

If Josef Mánes successfully performs all the actions indicated on his action card, 
13.6. JOSEF MÁNES’ ACTIONS proceed with the action check as described below. If not, flip over the dials After completing Josef Mánes’ turn in round 3, 6 or 9, follow these steps:

13.4. PARTICULARITIES OF JOSEF MÁNES’ TURN constructed by Josef Mánes, end his turn and move on to the player’s turn. 
Perform step 11 of Setup of Josef Mánes’ components. Following the end-of-round action tile instructions, place one of his workers in 

Josef Mánes does not gain or spend resources. He does not receive rewards for the first available position of the corresponding stained-glass-window objective, 
expanding the workshop, constructing, claiming objectives or advancing on the regardless of whether he has met the objective condition or not. If one of your 
mastery tracks, except for taking scrolls and scoring royal scrolls upon reaching Follow the steps below to perform the check. workers is already there, place it in the third position. If Josef Mánes has no 
the corresponding positions on the mastery tracks. He does not perform the available workers, first retrieve all his workers from the Orloj clock face.
action indicated by the hand of the astronomical dial on his turn. He only follows Receive the mastery bonuses indicated on the mastery tiles (two masteries for 
the instructions on his action cards. He does not force or correct deviations. 

Construct a zodiac or month basic level and three masteries for medium and advanced levels). Note: The icon number indicates which stained-glass-window objective he 

There are no resources of any kind in Josef Mánes’ play area. dial: Take the dial shown on the places his worker on: (1) is the leftmost of the three displayed on the main 
card and place it directly on the Flip over the dial(s) constructed through the action card, place one of his board.

13.5. JOSEF MÁNES’ TURN calendar with its unconstructed workers on them and gain 2 VP per dial, including that one, forming a group of Move the rooster one position and perform the rooster’s call if necessary.
side up (the side without the adjacent dials with his workers as usual. See step 3 of section 8.8. Constructing 

All action cards have the following structure: illustration). on page 12. This is the only way Josef Mánes places his workers on calendar dials. Check the position of Josef Mánes’ mastery disc for the mastery track indicated 
on the mastery track tile. If it is lower than the value indicated on the mastery 

Required workers to execute the card. If the action card contains two constructions, place the top one first, score the track objective tile, flip the scoring tile to its 0 VP side. If the mastery disc is the 
 Take an apostle: Take the apostle indicated on the card from corresponding points, then place the bottom one and score accordingly, reading same or higher, do not flip the tile.
Astronomical dial and Orloj clock face the shared apostle set and place it in his play area. Then, rotate the card from top to bottom.
rotations. Note: The first space from the bottom of the mastery track is considered 

the gears one position. space 0.
 Score the points indicated on the basic turn scoring card, moving his score 
First action of Josef Mánes. marker accordingly and move the rooster as indicated. If the rooster reaches the Flip the mastery track tile and the end-of-round action tile, revealing the 
 13.7. JOSEF MÁNES’ REWARDS last position of the track, perform the rooster’s call as usual after Josef Mánes’ hourglass icon.
Reward for performing the first action. turn. Ignore any additional steps the rooster cannot take during his turn. Josef 

Advance on a mastery track: Move two steps up on Discard the three action cards and shuffle the turn scoring cards. Then, remove 
 Mánes does not lose points from the rooster’s call.

the mastery track indicated by the icon colour. the three visible scrolls from the main board and reveal new ones.
Second action of Josef Mánes.
 If Josef Mánes reaches a scroll space, he takes a scroll After performing the action check, perform Step 11 of Josef Mánes’ component Perform Step 11 of Josef Mánes’ component setup and move on to your next 
Reward for performing the second action. from the face-down pile and places it in his play area. setup and proceed with your next player turn. turn.

18 19



APPENDIX: ICONOGRAPHY
Score the mastery stained-glass windows as 

usual. 1. RESOURCES 3. CLOCK FACE SECTIONS 5. WORKER ACTIONS
Level 1: Force 

This icon represents one 
Score 3 VP per assistant in his play area (6 VP paint, one wood or one See Section 5.4.1. Recovering one deviation 

in advanced mode). iron of your choice. workers on page 7. and take one gold 
and one coin.

Score the scoring tiles that were not flipped. Spend one paint, one Pay one coin to move your disc up Recover one worker from Level 2: Force 
wood or one iron of your one space in a mastery track of the clock or the calendar. one deviation 

Score the common stained-glass-window choice. your choice and move your disc up 
objectives as usual. one space in the indicated mastery and take one gold 

Produce the resources track. Perform these actions in any and two coins.
indicated in a production order. See section 8.2. Mastery on Recover two workers Level 3: Correct one deviation and 

Josef Mánes can score up to 15 VP per scoring track of your choice. page 10. from the clock or the take one gold and three coins.
tile. These tiles show a condition and a point calendar.
value for each time that condition is met. 

All Josef Mánes’ scoring tiles are described in section 17 of the Appendix on page Recover workers as indi- Level 1: Force 
23. Produce the resources indicated Produce the resources indicated cated by the numerical one deviation 

in your corresponding production in your corresponding production value from the clock or and move the 
13.11. SOLO MODE DIFFICULTY LEVELS track. track. See section 8.1. Resource calendar. In the image, re- painter; or acti-

Many solo mode components in Orloj contain the       symbol. This symbol indicates production on page 9. cover three workers. vate the moon 
that the component belongs to an advanced level. You can customize the difficulty without forcing 
by adding or flipping components with this symbol. We suggest the following a deviation.
three levels of difficulty: Take the indicated resource. 4. ADDITIONAL ACTIONS 6. SCULPTOR ACTIONS Level 2: Force one deviation, take 
BASIC LEVEL: Play solo mode without any components marked with      . one coin and move the painter; or 

Place an apostle in Many sculptor actions require take one coin and activate the moon 
your apostle panel. See forcing a deviation. You cannot 

MEDIUM LEVEL OPTION 1: Flip the mastery tiles and the mastery track objective with a +1 modifier.
Spend the indicated resource. section 10.1. Placing an perform the remaining actions 

tile to show the        symbol. apostle on page 15. unless you have first forced the 
2. OUTER RING SECTIONS Level 3: Correct one deviation, take 

indicated deviation. See section 8.9. 
MEDIUM LEVEL OPTION 2: Use the 3 advanced turn scoring cards instead of the one coin and move the painter; or 

Take one coin and one Activating the sculptor on page 13.
basic ones and flip the endgame scoring card to its        side. Spend one coin. See take one coin and activate the moon 

apostle. See section section 10.2. Spending a Level 1: Force with a +2 modifier.
ADVANCED LEVEL: Combine medium level option 1 and medium level option 2. 8.3. Taking an apostle coin on page 15. one deviation 

on page 10. and expand your 7. COMMON OBJECTIVE BONUSES
workshop.

14. TIPS FOR PLAYING ORLOJ Activate the moon or 
Josef Mánes places one worker in the first position of common stained-glass- Use a scroll. See section See section 10.5. Claiming an 

move the painter. See 10.3. Using a scroll on Level 2: Force objective on page 15.
window objective 3 (rightmost stained-glass window). Orloj is a complex game and reading the game state can be difficult in the first few sections 8.4 and 8.5 on page 15. one deviation, 

page 11. Take one apostle.
He moves the rooster one space on the round track. plays. Here are some recommendations: take one resource 
His yellow mastery disc is on position 5, which is below 6, so he flips the Take one coin and of your choice 

perform an upgrade. Place an assistant on 
corresponding scoring tile to 0 VP. Avoid spreading yourself across all three mastery tracks. It is more effective 

See section 8.6. a workshop card. See and expand your workshop. Take two coins from 
the general supply.

He flips the mastery track tile and the end-of-round action tile, revealing the to focus on two. Any combination can work, but some will be stronger depending 
hourglass icon. on which common stained-glass-window objectives and mastery stained-glass Performing an upgrade section 10.4. Placing an 

on page 11. assistant on page 15. Level 3: Correct one deviation, 
windows are in play. take one gold and expand your Take two resources 

He discards the used action cards and reshuffles the scoring cards. workshop. of your choice from 
Pay attention to common stained-glass-window objectives. Being the first to Expand the workshop. Place a worker on the general supply.

Before starting your turn, draw a new action card and a new scoring card, claim them grants bonus rewards and additional scoring opportunities. See section 8.7. one of the common Level 1: Force 
following step 11 of Josef Mánes’ component setup. Expand your workshop stained-glass-window Perform an 

two deviations 
Avoid completely exhausting your deviation tokens and use the moon to on page 12. objectives. See section upgrade on your 

and construct.
13.10. END OF THE SOLO GAME correct deviation when needed. Passing is not always bad as it activates the moon. 10.5. Claiming an hammer track or 

Perform a construc- objective on page 15.
tion. See section 8.8. Level 2: Force one of the production tracks of your 

A solo game ends immediately after Josef Mánes’ 12th turn. Perform your scoring Before constructing, it is best to observe which bonus you want from the 
as usual. calendar sections and check if you have the necessary resources before evaluating Constructing on page Exchange three identical one deviation, choice. See Section 8.6. Performing 

an upgrade on page 11.
all the options in the construction zone. 12. resources for one take one resource 

To win the game, you must score more points than Josef Mánes. In the case of a gold. See section 10.6. of your choice Move two steps 

tie, Josef Mánes wins. Orloj is a complex game. Try to enjoy it in your first few games before attempting Activate the sculptor. up in one mastery 
Exchanging resources and construct.

to evaluate every possibility to win. In no time, you will have a deep understanding See section 8.9. for gold on page 15. Level 3: Correct one deviation, take track, or move one 

To score Josef Mánes, follow the steps on his endgame scoring card: of the game and its optimization. Activating the sculptor one gold and construct. step up in two different mastery 
on page 13. tracks of your choice.

20 21



8. ASSISTANTS 10. ROOSTER ICONOGRAPHY 12. MASTERY STAINED-GLASS WINDOWS 13. ROYAL SCROLLS Recover two workers. Prague’s Orloj: 
See section 5.4.1. A clock that defies time.

Each assistant type provides a dif- See section 12.1. Mastery stained- See section 8.2. Mastery on page 10. Recovering workers on 
ferent endgame scoring bonus. To Move the rooster one glass-window scoring on page 16. page 7.
score, an assistant must be placed space to the right on Immediately score 3 
on a workshop card. See section the rooster track. At the end of the VP for each scroll or 
10.4. Placing an assistant on page royal scroll, including 17. JOSEF MÁNES’ SCORING TILES
15. Trigger the rooster’s game, score points 

call at the end of the according to the this one, in your play area (used or 
 rooster disc Level II: Correct one deviation.

This assistant grants 6 VP current player’s turn. height of your unused) up to a maximum of 10 VP. Level II: Move your
sc for up one position on your personal 

at the end of the game. See section 9. The mastery di Score 3 VP for 
n with a 

rooster’s call on page each scroll or royal scroll (used or board. Take one gold and one point Level III: Activate the moo
Immediately score 2 each month dial 

indicated by This astronomical clock, which has 
constructed with 

13. unused) that you have in your play if your rooster disc is already on the -1 modifier to what is 
VP for each apostle adorned the old town hall tower since 

last position of the track. your yellow mastery disc.
area, up to a maximum of 15 VP. a worker on top, up to a maximum 1410, is not only an advanced piece 

Move your rooster placed on your of 15 VP. of engineering for its time but also 
a symbol of human ingenuity and 

disc up one position apostle panel, up to a maximum of Level III: Move your rooster disc up 
This assistant grants 1 mankind’s obsession with measuring 

osition on your personal board 15. SCROLLS
on your personal At the end of the 10 VP. one p time and understanding the cosmos.

VP for each upgrade in board. Take one gold game, score points and gain 2 VP. Take one gold and one Take one apostle. See 
your production tracks or and one point if your according to the Immediately score 2 point if your rooster disc is already section 8.3 on page 10. Score 3 VP for Prague’s Orloj is 
hammer track at the end each zodiac dial more than just a 

rooster disc is already height of your VP for each upgrade on the last position of the track.
of the game. constructed with simple clock. Its 

on the last position of mastery disc for in your hammer 
Activate the moon a worker on top, up to a maximum mechanism com-

the track. each apostle placed on your apostle track and production tracks, up to a following the standard bines an astro-
panel, up to a maximum of 15 VP. maximum of 10 VP. of 15 VP.

This assistant grants 4 VP rules. See section 8.4 on nomical dial, a cal-
endar displaying 

for each mastery disc at page 11. the months of the 
Immediately score 3 

Level IV on any mastery 11. COMMON S  OBJECTIVES year and a series of 
At the end of the VP for each month Move the painter moving figures that 

track at the end of the See section 10.5. Claiming an game, score points dial with one of your following the standard Score 3 VP for 
game. objective on page 15. according to the workers on top, up to a maximum of rules. See section 8.5 on each apostle in perform a spectacle every hour on the 

height of your 10 VP. Level II: Force one deviation and page 11. Josef Mánes’ play hour. Among these figures, the Twelve 
area at the end of the game, up to a Apostles and the figure of Death—rep-

This assistant grants 5 mastery disc for nter. Take one coin and move maximum of 15 VP. resented by a skeleton ringing a bell—
VP for each completed each upgrade in Immediately score move the pai

your rooster disc up one stand out, symbolizing the transience of 

apostle column in your your hammer track and production 3 VP for each zodiac position on your personal life and the relentless passage of time.
Have three apostles of the indicated r.

apostle panel at the end tracks, up to a maximum of 15 VP. dial with one of your Level III: Move the painte
colour placed on your apostle panel. workers on top, up to a maximum of board. Take one gold and one point Score 3 VP for Its history is shrouded 

of the game. 10 VP. if your rooster disc is already on the each scroll or in legends. One of the 
most famous says that 

Have two assistants last position of the track. royal scroll in Josef 
Mánes’ play area master clockmaker 

placed on your At the end of the Hanus was blinded 
This assistant grants 3 workshop cards. game, score points Immediately score 3 

Perform an upgrade. See at the end of the game, up to a by order of the city 
according to the VP for each workshop 

VP for each month dial our play section 8.6 on page 11. maximum of 15 VP. council to prevent 
with one of your workers him from replicating 

Have three workshop height of your card in y
his masterpiece 

play mastery disc for area, up to a maximum of 10 VP.
on top at the end of the cards in your Perform a construction. elsewhere.
game. area. each month dial with one of your See section 8.8 on page Score 3 VP for each 

workers on top, up to a maximum 14. HAMMERS Level II: Move one mastery disc of 12. workshop card in Today, Orloj remains one of Prague’s main 
 upgrades of 15 VP. your choice up one space. Josef Mánes’ play tourist attractions. Every day, thousands 

This assistant grants 3 Have five
Each hammer grants a unique ability area at the end of of visitors gather in the old town square 

VP for each zodiac dial across your hammer to witness its mechanical procession. 
At the end of the to each player, which is applied as Level III: Move one mastery disc of 16. REWARDS FOR PLACING AN ASSISTANT the game, up to a maximum of 15 More than a simple attraction, Prague’s 

with one of your workers track and production 
step of construction. No your choice up one space and take 

on top at the end of the tracks. game, score points the final Move your rooster disc VP. Orloj is a living testament that, while 

ne of your according to the hammer has an ability at Level I. one coin.
game. Have o up one position on your time is relentless, it can be measured 

mastery discs at Level height of your personal board. Take CREDITS with art and precision.

III. mastery disc for one gold and one point ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
each zodiac dial with one of your if your rooster disc is Authors: Paloma J. Pascual and 

9. DEVIATION Have two month dials workers on top, up to a maximum already on the last position of the Abraham Sánchez. A huge thank you to everyone who 

and one zodiac dial of 15 VP. track. Illustration: Amelia Sales and Jesús participated! Special thanks to all 
Force a deviation. See Fuentes. the playtesters—this project would 

constructed, with one Graphic Design: Jesús Fuentes. not have been possible without 
section 5.3. Deviation Take one apostle. See 

of your workers on top Rules Writing: Jesús Fuentes. you. Particularly to Motedu, Carlos, 
tokens on page 7. At the end of the section 8.3 on page 

of each. game, score points 10. Translation: Elaine Fischer. Jorge J. Barroso, Mikel, Christian, 
vel II: Take one apostle in the Editing: Jesús Fuentes. Alejandro and Cipri.

Correct a deviation. See Have two zodiac dials according to the Level II: Take one coin from the Le

and one month dial height of your general supply. usual way. Activate the moon 
section 5.3. Deviation constructed, with one mastery disc for each workshop card  one apostle and following the usual 2025 PERRO LOKO GAMES. All rights reserved
tokens on page 7. of your workers on top in your play area, up to a maximum Level III: Take one coin from the Level III: Take rules. See section 8.4 Calle Lamarque de Novoa nº9, 3º Ñ. 

orrect one deviation.
of each. of 15 VP. general supply and gain 2 VP. c on page 11. 41008 Sevilla (Spain)

www.perrolokogames.com

22 23



www.perrolokogames.com