AN OPEN-WORLD ADVENTURE
designed by Jamey Stegmaier
art by Valentina Filić, Sören Meding, and Emilien Rotival
1–6 players · 120–180 minutes · ages 14+ · cooperative
Vantage is an open-world, cooperative adventure game featuring an entire planet to explore in
standalone sessions that begin with players scattered randomly across the world. With nearly 800
interconnected locations on cards and over 900 other discoverable cards, the world is your sandbox.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Components.........................................................................2
Setup........................................................................................3
Gameplay Overview.........................................................4
Location Cards....................................................................5
Sample Turn..........................................................................6
How to Take a Turn............................................................7
Boost........................................................................................11
Card Grid ................................................................................12
Card Anatomy......................................................................12
End of Game.........................................................................13
Before Your First Game...................................................13
Friendly Reminders...........................................................16

STOP

OVERVIEW AND GOAL

You begin each game of Vantage on an
intergalactic vessel heading towards the same
uncharted planet with 1 of 21 missions as your
primary goal. Each player selects 1 of 6 unique
characters, enters a single-person escape pod, and
crashes onto 1 of 126 different locations.
You view your location from a first-person
perspective—you can communicate with and
support other players, but you are separated by
vast distances, so only you can see your current
location. You have complete freedom in how you
explore, discover, and interact with the planet.
In addition to a mission victory, a destiny victory,
or an epic victory (completing both the mission
and a destiny), you may define success in Vantage
through anything you pursue and achieve.
Vantage is not a campaign game. Each game
is a standalone experience; you bring to future
sessions only what you’ve learned about the world.

IMPORTANT:

Until instructed to gain a card or to read from a storybook, do not look at the content
of any card or book (other than this rulebook), and do not open the spoiler pack.

Initial Setup

Before your first game, punch out all skill tokens and coins, and unwrap all cards other than the
spoiler pack. Keep the cards in numerical order with the card numbers facing upwards so you can
quickly locate any card. See page 3 for a visual of where cards go; large cards are stored in 3 flat
stacks.
Find cards 1709–1714. The person managing cards will insert these placeholders whenever they take
location cards from the box, making them easier to return to their original order.

1

COMPONENTS

415 large cards
(double-sided; 80x120mm)
002

761
691
770
683
694
780
787
387
385
709
301
676
667
664
680
705
316
351
773
668
305

Your escape pod seals tight, ejecting towards the planet in a completely
different direction from the others. Gain 2 random skills and crash onto
the matching location; you may reroll pairs to get an easier location.
Keep this card (002) in the holder to obscure the backs of your
new location and future locations you visit.
Vantage_Locations_r10.indd 3

19/01/2025 23:01

916 standard cards (57x87mm)
ANIMAL WILD

3

6

TAILFEATHER PARROT
The animal is now loyal to you.
Replace this with animal 1108.

803

1 spoiler pack of cards
Vantage_HandCards_r9.indd 1

8/12/2024 14:21

Vantage_HandCards_r8.indd 913

23/11/2024 22:06

8 storybooks

5
MOVE STORYBOOK
Vantage_Storybooks_MOVE_r10.indd 1

LOOK STORYBOOK

19/05/2025 21:24

Vantage_Storybooks_LOOK_r14.indd 1

19/05/2025 21:38

ENGAGE STORYBOOK
Vantage_Storybooks_ENGAGE_r11.indd 1

19/05/2025 21:29

HELP STORYBOOK
Vantage_Storybooks_HELP_r9.indd 1

19/05/2025 21:33

Book of Secrets.
Secrets . . . 2
Glossary . . . . . . . 10

TAKE STORYBOOK
Vantage_Storybooks_TAKE_r9.indd 1

24/02/2025 15:10

OVERPOWER STORYBOOK
Vantage_Storybooks_OVERPOWER_r9.indd 1

19/05/2025 21:42

DO NOT LOOK INSIDE UNLESS INSTRUCTED.

DEPART STORYBOOK
Vantage_Storybooks_DEPART_r8.indd 1

19/05/2025 21:49

Vantage_Storybooks_Secrets_r9.indd 1

19/05/2025 21:47

1 Book of Vantages

60 boost tokens (cubes)

1 game board
CHALLENGE DICE POOL

FULL GRID

Create this with a total of 8 dice plus 2 per player.

The first time a player has a
full grid, gain destiny 1705.

If you suffer 1 heat, cold, or hypoxia damage, lose either

0

1

2

3

or both

4

&

.

5

6

If you would increase
, , or above 6,
instead gain 1 random
skill.

When any token
reaches 0, read the
mission’s entry in
the take storybook.

60 skill tokens

In addition to a mission victory, a destiny victory, or an epic victory (completing both the mission
and a destiny), you may define success through anything you pursue and achieve.

MISSION

6 time trackers
(1 per player)

DESTINY

CHALLENGE DICE
(PENALTY)

If you do not place a challenge
die in a grid, place it here &
suffer its penalty (if any).

You can have multiple destinies. The game ends if you complete a destiny.

Vantage_Board_r6.indd 1

12/6/24 2:38 PM

6 morale trackers
(1 per player)

20 challenge dice
45 coins

6 health trackers
(1 per player)

12 skill dice
6 location card holders
(1 per player)

2

The cards in Vantage are never shuffled, so no sleeves are necessary. Replacement parts can be requested
via the form at stonemaiergames.com/replacement-parts.

4

2
1
6

SETUP

1 	 Place the game box on the table next to a player in charge of finding and returning cards (they

gain placeholder cards 1709-1714); this is more efficient than passing the box around the table. Tilt
the three big stacks of large cards out of their flat-packed position.

2 	 Place the board (the “center”) in the middle of the table with time, morale, and health trackers
nearby. Both sides of the board are functionally the same.

3 	 Place all skill tokens, coins, boost tokens (cubes), skill dice, and the storybooks in a general supply
near the game board (the “center”). The backs of most storybooks have reference guides.

4 	 Seed the challenge dice pool with 8 challenge dice plus 2 per player (e.g., for three players there
are 14 dice), then return the remaining challenge dice to the box.

5 Each player gains a location card holder. Randomly select someone to be the first player.

6 	 Place the Book of Vantages on the table with the back cover facing up to display location 000.

Follow the instructions on location 000 to complete setup, using skill dice for randomization. It is
here that each player will independently gain their character and starting stats.

		 
For your first game we recommend the “daring” starting level for time, morale, and health and avoid
difficult crash locations. Other recommendations for your first game are found on page 13.
You can watch a rules video at stonemaiergames.com/games/vantage/rules-faq.

3

GAMEPLAY OVERVIEW

The game consists of players taking turns clockwise around the table. Each player performs 1 action
per turn (unless indicated otherwise), using skills contributed by any player to decrease the action
cost; rolling challenge dice based on that cost to determine any complications encountered; and
placing dice on cards in grids to mitigate those complications. You always succeed when performing
an action; the challenge is to avoid losing time, morale, and health.
You will typically begin the game by exploring the area where you arrive—which will be different
than the other players—and interacting with various locations in the hopes of adding cards to your
3x3 grid; these cards offer additional challenge dice placement slots and other powers. One or more
players may pursue the shared mission (why you traveled to this planet), and along the way you may
discover various destinies (options for resolving your fate on or beyond this world). You must discover
destiny cards—there is no destiny revealed during setup. Work together to share knowledge, skills,
and impact dice slots as you seek to avoid any player’s time, morale, or health being reduced to 0.

Universal Rule of Thematic Fun

If you are ever in doubt about a Vantage rule, card, ability, or anything else, choose the most fun
answer that makes sense thematically.
We are always happy to help in real time or after your game if you post your question (aided by
details about the situation, including exact text, when available) in the Vantage Facebook group, on
BoardGameGeek, on the Vantage FAQ page on our website, or on the Stonemaier Games Discord
server.

Sharing Information

Since your location represents your vantage (what you can see), only you may look at your current
location card.
  ou may not look at any of your previous locations or the locations seen by other players. You may
Y
describe the card’s artwork to other players, read the description aloud to them, and share the
location action options.
I f you are directed to look at a page in the Book of Vantages, you may look at only that page, and
you may not show it to other players.
T  okens, dice, cards in each player’s grid, reserve, and supply, and cards you are instructed to place
on the table are public information.

Storybooks

On most turns in the game, short passages of text in a storybook are referenced: Early in your turn you
will read the cost and the action (in bold), then later in your turn you will read the result (unbold text).
We recommend that players share the responsibility of reading aloud, with another player reading on
your turn so you can focus on the mechanisms of performing an action.

Solo Play

Solo play in Vantage is the same as any other player count (the number of challenge dice scales as
normal, with 10 total dice in a solo game). There is no Automa to represent the other characters—you
are in full control. No matter the player count, you only ever control 1 character (we highly discourage
you from breaking the immersion by playing multiple characters).

4

LOCATION CARDS

Your location card represents your current position on the planet, and it includes what you
can see and many of your action options. Keep it in your location card holder.
Specific numbers in the descriptions below are examples referring to the sample location below.

1 	 Art (background): This is your vantage. You may describe this view to the other players but not show
it to them, as they are elsewhere on the planet and can’t see through your eyes.

2 	 Location number (upper left): Provide this number to the other players when you interact with this
location so they can find the corresponding entry (272) in a storybook.

3 	 Compass (upper right): This symbol shows the 4 different cardinal directions to which you can depart
from this location (forward is always north). The compass may include:

		•  Adjacent listed locations (e.g., 500, 273, and 271): Departing to any of these locations is a 1-cost move
action without a storybook entry.
		•   Unlisted adjacent locations: After choosing to depart in the direction of a * location, the cost is
revealed in the Depart storybook for this location number (e.g., 272 move south).
		•  Blocked locations: If there is no number or *, you cannot depart from this location in that direction.

4 	 Description: Brief text about the location. You may read this to other players.

		•  Some locations show the
icon in the bottom left, followed by text in quotation marks. This
means that the mysterious Traveler is talking to you at this location.
		•  A
icon indicates a mandatory instruction that must be followed immediately upon arrival
(typically a climate-related penalty; see page 10).
		•  Elemental icons (e.g.,

) indicate an interaction with something of that composition.

5 	 Location Actions (almost always the right sidebar): You may read these to other players.

These are the different ways you can interact with the location within the categories of
move , look , engage , help , take , and overpower (e.g., look-STUDY). Unless an action result
indicates otherwise (see “End your turn” on page 11), you may only perform 1 location action per
location.

2 272

1

3

500
271

273

*

5

WANDER
STUDY
ASK

4

As you emerge from an oasis, you notice
3 globules hovering over stone pillars.
Vantage_Locations_r10.indd 295

BUILD
PILFER
SMASH
19/01/2025 23:06

5

SAMPLE TURN

This page provides a brief overview of a sample turn, and each of the steps described here will be
explained in detail on pages 7–11.

1.  Choose one action from the three types of actions: I’m at location 272, and

decide to perform a location action (see page 7 for information on
the three action types). I read my location’s description aloud and
describe what I see. The area does not look dangerous, so I commit to
performing the move-WANDER action (I cannot change my mind after
proceeding to the next step).

272

500
271

273

*

WANDER
STUDY
ASK
BUILD

As you emerge from an oasis, you notice
3 globules hovering over stone pillars.
Vantage_Locations_r10.indd 295

PILFER
SMASH
19/01/2025 23:06

2.  Read the cost and action (not the result): Another

player finds entry 272 in the move storybook and
reads the cost (3) and the action (“WANDER around the
mysterious area”). They do not read the action result.

3. R  educe the cost by 1 per matching skill optionally paid
by any player: I do not have a move skill token, but

another player does. They discard 1 move skill token
to reduce the cost by 1.

5.  Place rolled challenge dice one at a time on grid cards
(any slots on your cards and impact slots on other players’
cards): My character, the captain, has both challenge
dice slots open. I am performing a move action, so
I can place any die on the move slot—I choose the
time die for this—and gain 1 boost ( ) as the
immediate output, placing a cube on my character.
I only have my character card in my grid and no
other player has an open impact ( ) slot for health
results, so I cannot place the health result.

MASTER
BUY
EQUIP

When placed:

1435

1 health I have to deal with (thematically, the action took
more time than expected and I hurt myself doing it).

CHARACTER

4.  Roll dice from the challenge dice pool equal to the remaining
cost: I roll 2 challenge dice, resulting in 1 time and

or

JULES, THE CAPTAIN
Reroll 1 of your challenge dice
(gain if the result is unchanged)
or transfer 1 reserved card into
your grid.

Vantage_HandCards_r10.indd 636

16/01/2025 09:36

6.  Suffer penalties from rolled-but-unplaced challenge dice: The unplaced die showing health goes to the
penalty section of the center and I lose 1 health (adjusting my tracker). The time die remains on
the character card.

7.  Read the action result: Another player reads the result for entry 272 in the move storybook.
8.  End your turn: The action result did not say “continue,” so my turn ends here. If the action had said

to “continue,” I’d be required to perform another action; if it had said, “You may continue,” it’s my
choice to perform another action or not. This only applies to my current turn; I may not continue
at this location on a future turn unless another action allows me to do so. The player to my left
takes the next turn.

6

272 7–11)
HOW TO TAKE A TURN (PAGES

500

271
273
On your turn, perform one action by following a few steps in order (these steps are
also shown in a flowchart on the backs of storybooks). You will always succeed when
*
performing an action; the challenge is to avoid losing time, morale, or health. After your
turn, play proceeds clockwise to the next player.

008

072

1.  Choose one action from the three types of actions (location, card, and depart). You will choose 011
the action
009
for your turn without knowing the cost or results, but you will always succeed.

		 L  ocation Actions: Each location lists (usually 6) location actions in the
categories of move , look , engage , help , take , and overpower .

064

WANDER
STUDY
ASK

			•  Reference the storybook entry for this location (e.g., for the look-STUDY
action on location 272, reference entry 272 in the look storybook).

BUILD

As youaemerge
from action
an oasis,here
you notice
			•  If you previously performed
location
(even in a turn some
3 globules hovering over stone pillars.
time before the last), you cannot perform another. Choose a depart action
or card action instead.
Vantage_Locations_r10.indd
295
Suffer 1 hypoxia
damage.
				  “Always available”: Some
location
action
lists may have a note indicating
that a specific action is always
available.
This
action
available
even if you
You hover in the clouds, far above
the isforest
canopy. You
previously performed it could
or another
location
action
here.
fly to an adjacent sky location or steer back down.

PILFER
SMASH
19/01/2025 23:06

STEER is always
available.

STEER

			•  If another player previously visited the same location this game, you may
not perform a thematically
contradictory location
action (e.g., if a player previously 19/01/2025
burned23:01
Vantage_Locations_r10.indd
15
a bridge at your location, you may not cross the bridge). Because Vantage is a highly visual
single-session game, players should be able to remember where they’ve been or what they’ve
done (taking notes is permitted if necessary, though).
		 C  ard Actions: Many non-location cards include action
options. These include actions on cards in your grid,
your supply, and the center.
			•  Reference the storybook entry for that specific card (e.g., for a help-EQUIP
action on card 1435, reference entry 1435 in the help storybook).
			•  You may not look at the card you are gaining (if any) until you have
completed the action.
			•  Unless stated otherwise, you may perform a card action even if you have
already performed an action on that card.
		 D
  epart Actions: Move away from your location in 1
of 4 cardinal directions to another location (north
always points forward). This is a move action.

272

			•  Each number (500, 273, and 271 for this location)
is an adjacent listed location. You may go to any
of these locations using a 1-cost move action (WALK
or SWIM) that does not use a storybook.

500
271

273

*

			•  Each star (*) requires you to reference the Depart storybook. For this
location, you would look at the “move south” entry for location 272
WANDER
in the Depart storybook for the cost, action, and result of moving
STUDY
south from this location.
ASK
			•  In the rare case that a direction shows neither a location number

You will choose the action
for your turn without
knowing the cost or
results, but you will always
succeed. You may not
change your mind about
the action after reading
the cost and description.
A big part of the game is
intuiting, discussing, and
learning by trying.

nor *, you cannot depart from this location in that direction.BUILD

As you emerge from an oasis, you notice
3 globules hovering over stone pillars.

PILFER
SMASH

7

2.  Read the cost and action (not the result). As noted above, the cost and/or action are printed on

some cards, though most require players to reference a storybook. In most cases you will use a
storybook entry to see the cost and full action. Use the storybook matching the category (e.g.,
engage) and the entry matching the card on which the action appears (e.g., location 272).
  ome cards include the full cost, action, and result—do not reference the
S
storybook for these actions. In addition to the type of action and the standard
cost (the quantity of challenge dice to roll in step 4), some actions on grid cards
also have a boost cost ( ; a cube paid from that card). In the example to the
right, this is a 4-cost help action that requires you to also pay 1 boost.

		 I f the depart action you chose is to an adjacent listed location, the move cost is 1. Other adjacent
locations are marked with *; you must look up their move cost in the Depart storybook after
declaring a direction. If you move in a specific orthogonal direction (e.g., move east) and there
is a related diagonal direction entry in the Depart storybook (e.g., move southeast), you may
choose to move in that related direction instead of your original choice.
			  Regions: Some location actions refer to the region (a broader area encompassing multiple
locations), which is a letter noted in parentheses in the look storybook entry for your location.
		 F
  or actions with cost X , choose a number 1–6 as the cost. This indicates how much effort you
will put into the action, and the result of the action will depend on the cost number you choose.
REGION

COST

ACTION

RESULT

3. R  educe the cost by 1 per matching skill optionally paid by any player. Using skill tokens to reduce the cost
will decrease the potential to lose time, morale, and health due to unplaced challenge dice.

		 Skills (tokens) represent insights and advice.
		 P
  layers may pay skills to benefit each other at any time, not just to
reduce action costs.
		 D
  iscard paid skill tokens to the general supply. You are limited to the
tokens provided.

4.  Roll dice from the challenge dice pool equal to the remaining cost. The cost of an action represents its

difficulty; roll challenge dice from the pool equal to the numerical cost (e.g., for a cost of 2, roll 2
challenge dice).

3 and a player pays 1 look skill token, roll 2
		 F
  or example, if the cost is
challenge dice instead of 3. If the cost was decreased to 0 in the previous
step, do not roll any challenge dice.

		 I f (and only if) there are fewer available dice in the challenge dice pool than the remaining cost,
first refresh ALL challenge dice from cards in grids and the penalty section of the center by
returning them to the challenge dice pool. For example, if the remaining cost is 2 but there is only
1 die in the challenge dice pool, first refresh all challenge dice, then roll 2 of them from the full pool.
		 T  he total quantity of challenge dice in the game is always 8 dice plus 2 per player (any excess
dice are not used—keep them in the box).

8

5.  Place rolled challenge dice one at a time on your grid cards (and impact ( ) slots on any players’
grid cards). By placing a die on an open slot, you avoid suffering its penalty.
 	

  
Each
slot can hold at most 1 die. Most slots have restrictions on which types of
challenge dice can be placed. For example:

CREATE

 Skill type (e.g., you may

A  bility (e.g., you may only place a
challenge die here during a helpCREATE action). Important: If you
have dice slots or powers related
to abilities, pay close attention
when moving to a new location,
especially if someone else is
reading the storybook to you.

  Interaction (e.g., you may only place

Many slots have a ,
,
, or
, indicating that
only a die showing that
specific result may be
placed there. For any slot
without a specific die face,
any result may be placed
(even
).

Some slots provide immediate
bonuses when you place a challenge
die on them (arrow pointing away
from the slot; place the gained
boost on the same card). While the
bonus is typically a boost, other
bonuses are also possible (a skill,
/ / , a specific card, etc).

Some slots have costs to place
a challenge die (arrow pointing
towards the slot; you must pay the
boost (1 or 2, as indicated) from the
same card).

To place a challenge die
on a terrain-specific dice
slot (e.g., underwater),
your current location
must match that terrain.

Impact ( ) dice slots may be used by any player (with your permission),
even if they are at a different location. They represent expertise and
personality (e.g., a character with a morale impact slot is someone with
a positive attitude and leadership qualities). If another player places a
challenge die on your impact dice slot and there is a bonus (e.g., a boost),
you gain it.

only place a challenge
die here during a
move ( ) action).

 	
 	

 	

a challenge die on this slot during
an action involving something
of sinew ( ) composition; this
includes location actions and card
actions showing this icon, plus
interactive depart actions (e.g.,
“Sneak past the creature”).

I f another player is at your location, you may place challenge dice on open slots on their cards
(even non-impact slots) with their permission.
I f another player has a location-specific card in their supply and you are on that card’s location,
you may perform actions on that card.
  henever a challenge die is placed on a slot, it remains there until all challenge dice are
W
refreshed (see step 4 on page 8).

9

6. S  uffer penalties from rolled-but-unplaced challenge dice, then discard them to the penalty section of the center.
		 	 														 These symbols represent
/										
/
the loss of time, morale,
and health respectively. If you can’t place
these dice on cards, discard them to the
penalty section of the center, and lose the
time, morale, and/or health shown on those
dice by adjusting the appropriate tracker.
These losses are applied simultaneously. If
any of these stats is ever reduced to 0, read
the mission’s entry in the take storybook.

  			 This symbol represents a setback. If you
			 don’t place dice with this symbol, return
them to the challenge dice pool (this delays
the potential for a full refresh, when all dice
are returned to the pool from cards in grids
and the penalty section).
  				 This symbol represents a blank result
(this is good). Discard this die to the penalty
section of the center.

7.  Read the action result. Most actions result in an immediate benefit described in the storybook (or on the card
for some card actions).
		 I n multi-option lists, make a choice before learning
or viewing the outcome (e.g., if you choose to move
to location 259, you only look at that card after
making the decision).
		 I f your location changes as a result, the player in charge of managing the cards will use your
placeholder card to return your current location card to the box, find and give you the new card,
and mark the new card’s position. In the rare case that you move onto a location on either side
of someone else’s location card, simply pass it back and forth.
		 I f a location’s
(upon arrival) effect—or any other penalty—instructs you to suffer 1 heat,
cold, or hypoxia damage, lose your choice of either 1
or both 1
and 1
.
		 I f you would ever gain / /
when that stat is already at the max of 6, instead gain
1 random skill (roll a skill die and gain a skill token matching the result).
		  Skills
			•  If the results include a skill payment (e.g., pay 1 move or 1 overpower), any player may discard a
skill token so that you can gain the benefit. If no one pays, you do not gain the benefit.
			•  If the results include a skill benefit (e.g., gain 1 move or 1 engage), gain a skill token of that kind.
			•  If the results instruct you to gain a random skill, roll a skill die to determine the token to gain.
Sometimes the benefit is a specific skill (e.g., “Roll 2 skill dice and gain all move results”).
		  If another player is on your location, during this step you may:
			•  depart/move them with you (simultaneously, with permission; they don’t pay the cost), and
			•  give them coins, items, flora, and vehicles (ignore “when placed” effects on exchanged cards;
the exchanged cards retain all challenge dice but lose all boost).
		 I f an action result or any consequence causes you to lose something that you don’t have
(e.g., lose
when you have no money, lose a card in reserve when you have no cards in
reserve, etc.), ignore those instructions. This rule only applies to results, not costs—if you can’t
pay a listed cost, you may not gain the benefit.
If you would ever gain a card you already have in your grid, instead gain 1 boost on the card (if possible).

10

If you would ever gain a card another player already has, the two players decide who keeps/gains it.
If the card goes to you, any challenge dice on the card are refreshed and any boost are lost, and you
gain “when placed” benefits on the card, if any. If the card remains with the other player, you instead
gain 1 boost on your character (if possible).

8.  End your turn. If a location action’s result includes instructions to “continue”, you must

perform an additional action, ignoring the restriction in step 1 (e.g., if you already
performed the engage location action, you may choose another location action, but not
the same engage action).

		 Some
  
results include instructions to continue with a specific action. If it is an action noted on the
location, start with step 2. Otherwise, start with step 1.
		 S
  ome non-location actions include instructions to “continue,” but these do not ignore the
restriction in step 1.
		 T  he instructions sometimes read, “You may continue”; in that case, continuing to perform
another action is a choice, not mandatory. This only applies to your current turn; you may not
continue at this location on a future turn unless another action allows you to do so.

BOOST

At any time on any turn (even in the middle of an action or while another player is performing an
action), you may use boost ( ) powers on cards in your grid to benefit yourself. Boost represents
knowledge learned while you explore the planet and use the things you discover.

BUY
EQUIP

BOOST GAINED/PAID
ON THIS CARD

6

or

JULES, THE CAPTAIN
Reroll 1 of your challenge dice
(gain if the result is unchanged)
or transfer 1 reserved card into
your grid.

803

When placed:

BOOST GAINED/PAID ON LOCATIONS
(AND THIS CHARACTER CARD)

ANIMAL WILD

CHARACTER

MASTER

TAILFEATHER PARROT
The animal is now loyal to you.
Replace this with animal 1108.

1435

  oost gained/paid on locations goes to/from your character (e.g., if the storybook text of a location
B
action says to “Gain 1 boost,” place it on your character).

Vantage_HandCards_r10.indd 636

16/01/2025 09:36

Vantage_HandCards_r9.indd 1

8/12/2024 14:21

 Boost gained/paid on all other cards goes on/from that card.
 Each card has limited capacity for boost that cannot be exceeded.
 The effects of boost powers last until the end of the current turn.
  hen an icon ( ) is used instead of the word “boost,” the number of icons represent the amount
W
of boost.
is 1 boost,
is 2 boost.
T  here is no hard limit on total boost tokens in Vantage. In the rare case that all 60 boost tokens are
on cards and you need more, any cube is a suitable addition.
I f a challenge dice ability says “place them in the center,” it’s referring to the penalty section of
the center (otherwise it would say to “refresh” the dice, which returns them to the challenge dice
pool).
  ome cards request that players place ubiquitous “tokens” to track progress; boost tokens are used
S
for this purpose.

11

CARD GRID

Whenever you gain a vertical card (same size as your character card), place
it in any open space in your 3x3 grid: a tableau of up to 9 cards with your
character in the middle. You may not reposition cards in your grid. The first
time a player completes their grid, place destiny 1705 in the center.
MASTER
BUY
EQUIP

When placed:

1435

  henever you replace or lose a card in your grid, refresh any dice on it
W
and return any boost on it to the general supply. Return lost cards to the
box. You must always have your character card in your grid. Insert the
new card in the same position as the replaced card.

CHARACTER

  ther than impact ( ) slots/powers, any benefits provided by cards in
O
your grid only apply to cards in your grid (not cards controlled by other
players or in your reserve).

or

JULES, THE CAPTAIN
Reroll 1 of your challenge dice
(gain if the result is unchanged)
or transfer 1 reserved card into
your grid.

Vantage_HandCards_r10.indd 636

16/01/2025 09:36

  djacency in Vantage always refers to orthogonal adjacency (cards that
A
touch at edges left-to-right or top-to-bottom).

Reserve

You also have a limited capacity to reserve vertical cards outside of your grid in your supply (capacity
is the total of all icons on cards in your grid). Whenever you gain a card but your grid is already full,
you may either reserve the new card or reserve a card in your grid (other than your character card) to
make space. Then, if this exceeds your reserve capacity, lose an excess card from your reserve.
  ou may not use slots, abilities, or powers on reserved cards, but they retain boost tokens. When
Y
reserved, a card’s challenge dice are refreshed.
  ach character has a boost power to transfer a reserved card into their grid (to an open space or
E
swapping with a card); do not gain “when placed” benefits of cards transferred from reserve.

Supply

Some cards you gain are horizontal, not vertical. These cards are either shared with all players (missions
and destinies) or are kept in your supply. There is no limit to how many horizontal cards you can have in
your supply.

CARD ANATOMY

“WHEN PLACED” BENEFIT
gain when placing this card into your grid
for the first time (2 boost)

12

CARD NUMBER

MASTER
BUY
EQUIP

When placed:

1435

SOME CARDS HAVE A COIN VALUE ( )
the game will tell you when this matters
RESERVE CAPACITY
quantity of vertical cards you can keep
beyond your grid (1 extra)

CHARACTER

CHALLENGE DICE SLOT (MOVE)
one of your challenge dice can be
placed here (for a move action); gain
1 boost after placing a die here

or

JULES, THE CAPTAIN
Reroll 1 of your challenge dice
(gain if the result is unchanged)
or transfer 1 reserved card into
your grid.

CHALLENGE DICE SLOT
as an impact slot ( ), a challenge die
morale result ( ) rolled by any player
can be placed here
CARD ACTIONS
when you perform one, refer to the
storybook entry for this card (1435)
BOOST CAPACITY
quantity of boost
this card can hold (6)
BOOST POWER
at any time, pay 2 boost from this card to
gain either 1 coin or 1 move skill token
BOOST POWER
at any time, pay 1 boost from this card
to do this

END OF GAME

A game can end in several different ways, and the storybooks will give you the
option (or the requirement) to end the game when:

 You complete the mission (completing a mission will give you a choice

between ending the game and continuing the game to pursue also
completing a destiny).
 You complete a destiny (completing a destiny will end the game, irrespective
of whether you have completed your mission).
 Any player’s time, morale, or health is reduced to 0. If this happens, read the
mission’s entry in the take storybook.
You may even end the game when the time you allotted to play
Vantage has expired. There is a lot of variation in the duration of
Vantage depending both on random factors and player choices
(e.g., performing the actions printed on the mission can significantly
decrease the duration). Some games may end far quicker than 2 hours,
while others might push beyond the 3-hour mark.
In addition to a mission victory, a destiny victory, or an epic victory
(both the mission and a destiny are complete), you may define success
through anything you pursue and achieve.

Weeks after
1 your
ship ar

Create the t

000

When the game ends, return all cards and components to the box
player gains a different
2 Each
skill (select or randomize) and
(any cards gained from the spoiler pack return to that pack). In other
its matching character card:
words, everything completely resets so you can have a new adventure the next time you play Vantage.
(1435), (1436),
(1437),
For storage purposes, lay the 3 stacks of location cards flat inside their compartments
with
(1438), (1439),
or various
(1440).
tokens/dice in the gaps that remain, then place all storybooks on top of them.
Place the card in the middle of your
grid and gain its “when placed” benefit.

BEFORE YOUR FIRST GAME

 For your first game we recommend using the “daring” starting level

for time, morale, and health and avoiding difficult crash locations.

These settings are found on location 000 and on the escape
pod locations. Make bold choices while playing, as the first
time a player’s time, morale, or health is reduced to 0 doesn’t
necessarily end the game—you will have an option to continue
playing as presented by the mission’s entry in the take storybook.

3 Each player sets the / / trackers
matching their character color to:
3 (brazen)
4 (daring)
5 (practical)
6 (cautious)

first player
gains 2 skills at ran
Y  our first game is largely about experimentation as you learn about different actions, consequences,
and risk
4 The
in
the
center;
they
tolerances in Vantage. This is more important than the mission; instead, just try to fill your
grid by may reroll pairs
Then everyone goes to location 00
gaining 8 cards from different locations (and from actions on cards in your grid). It’s perfectly
normal if you don’t achieve this goal. Avoid performing the actions printed on the mission card
unless it’s causing too much confusion and you need a sense of direction.
Vantage_BookOfVantages_r11.indd 50

D  iscovery and perception are significant elements of Vantage. You will wonder how to do and find
things—that is a normal part of the discovery curve of this game, and the game will not hold your
hand. Just try things that intrigue you. Use your eyes and intuition: If an action looks difficult, it
probably has a high cost. Some actions will turn out differently or be more difficult than what you
expect; this will help the next time a player sees that type of action. You may optionally take notes
as you play.
C  ommunication between players is critically important, and not just for sharing skills and impact dice
slots (which represent sharing your advice and expertise). Each player’s choices are their own, but
any information you have from what you have seen and experienced is yours to share freely. To
succeed, you will often need to describe what you see and discuss your options, both for shortterm and long-term goals.

13

Glossary

The glossary, which is found on page 10 of the Book of Secrets, lists many of the types of cards and
terms you may discover while playing Vantage. We highly recommend only reading a glossary entry
if you have questions, and only after encountering a specific type of card or a specific term. For
example, the first time you see a Lesson card, you may look up the word “Lesson” in the glossary.

Special Thanks

Vantage has been a passion project for me (Jamey) for over 8 years, but I was not alone in this
endeavor. In addition to the monumental effort of creating an entire planet through nearly
1700 illustrations by Valentina Filić, Sören Meding, and Emilien Rotival, I am forever grateful to
Juliana Moreno and Ariel Rubin (The Wild Optimists) for creating some of the in-game puzzles, Ira Fay
for creating the playtest app from scratch, Shannon Lentz at Panda Game Manufacturing for years
of discussions about components, Jose Manuel López-Cepero for creating the web app, Karel Titeca
and Christine Santana for typesetting and graphic design, Morten Monrad Pedersen and the Automa
Factory team for their help with the solo rules for the spoiler pack, developers Garrett Feiner and
Travis Willse for their detailed feedback and editing, and Ryan Davis and Travis Willse for adding extra
flair to many of the Move and Depart storybook results.

Playtesters: Mike Bartoo-Abud, Mitch Caudill, Blake Chursinoff, Caleb Chursinoff, Dusty Craine,

Ryan S. Davis, Susannah Eisenbraun, Mark Espiridion, Ira Fay, Allie Feiner, Garrett Feiner,
William Augustus Griffin Sr., Lindsay Grossmann, Ossian Hawkes, Wanja Heeren, Preston Holmes,
Chris Ingold, Josh Jahner, Ben Jepsen, Abigail Jones, Emily Jones, Derik Kellner, Robert Konigsberg,
Max Lüdov, Tyler McKinnon, Thom Mollinga, Chris Munford, Jay Nabedian, Crystal Nevin, Jason Nevin,
Nicolas Pupat, Gregory Rempe, Caroline Rempe, Clara Rempe, Dominick Salazar, Ana Salazar,
Erica Sanders, Artur Carvalho Santos, Nathan Smith, Franziska Steiner, David Studley, Lieve Teugels,
Karel Titeca, Kobe Titeca, Michael Vannoy, Josh Ward, Travis Willse, Shawn Wilson, Darren Wolford,
Frank Wolf, Kentoku Yamamoto

Proofreaders: Brian Chandler, Garrett Feiner, Jan Horák, Jared Kepron, Mike Lee, Crystal Nevin, Justin
Radziewicz, Asa Swain, Karel Titeca, Ian Tyrrell, Jay Voss, Josh Ward, Travis Willse, Dana Woller,
Dave Zokvic

I’m also incredibly grateful for the many amazing games that inspired Vantage in some way, including
The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild (and Tears of the Kingdom), The Witcher 3, Baldur’s Gate 3,
Eastshade, Stardew Valley, Subnautica, Red Dead Redemption, Ghost of Tsushima, Elden Ring, Tunic,
TIME Stories, The 7th Continent (and Citadel), Sleeping Gods, Tainted Grail, Earthborne Rangers,
Near and Far, Crusoe Crew, Lands of Galzyr, Micro Macro, One Deck Dungeon, and Roll Player
Adventures, among others.

14

WANT TO WATCH A HOW-TO-PLAY VIDEO OR READ THE FAQ?
Go to stonemaiergames.com/games/vantage/rules-faq
This is where we will post clarifications or revisions.

HAVE A QUESTION WHILE PLAYING, A STORY TO SHARE,
AN INTEREST IN SPECIAL CHALLENGES, OR A FINAL GRID TO BOAST ABOUT?

Post it on the Vantage Facebook group, on BoardGameGeek, or in the Vantage channel of
the Stonemaier Games Discord server: stonemaiergames.com/discord (you can play remotely
with others who own Vantage using the Discord server)

NEED A REPLACEMENT PART?

Request it at stonemaiergames.com/replacement-parts

WANT TO STAY IN TOUCH?

Subscribe to monthly updates at stonemaiergames.com/e-newsletter

15

FRIENDLY REMINDERS

 You may always talk openly with other players and share the text of any card, but you may never
show your location to anyone else (unless a card specifically says to do so), nor may you look at
any location you are not currently on.

 When you depart to an adjacent listed location, it is a move action with a cost of 1. Proceed with all
steps to complete a 1-cost move action; just like any action, this movement is your entire turn.

 When placing challenge dice, unless specified by a challenge dice slot, you can even

place blank ( ) and setback (
) results. For example, if you roll 1 challenge die
to move to an adjacent listed location and the result is blank, you could place it on a
general move slot on a card in your grid (to gain a boost bonus), even though there is no
penalty for not placing it.

 Instead of choosing a location action on your turn, you may perform an action on a card in your

grid, your supply, or the center. If you do, view the entry for that action using the number at the
bottom of the card.

 To use a card’s boost power, spend boost (
location action, place it on your character.

) from that specific card. If you gain a boost from a

 You can only perform 1 location action per location per game unless an action instructs you

otherwise, or if the card specifies that the second action you take is always available (e.g., you
cannot perform the take action on a location and then later perform the overpower action there).
Other than this restriction, you have complete freedom to choose your actions.

 You cannot read the cost or results of an action before performing it. Likewise, some action results
include more choices; you can read the choices while selecting, but not the results.

 The only “persistent” element in Vantage from game to game is information. Everything you learn

about the world can benefit you in future games, and we encourage players to use that knowledge
to their advantage. Please respect other players’ desire to avoid or learn what you already know.

 For a comprehensive list of ways to make Vantage easier or harder, see “Difficulty” on page 11 of
the Book of Secrets.

16

